Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
solar eclipse,  the Moon coming between Earth and the Sun so that the Moon’s shadow sweeps over Earth’s surface. This shadow consists of two parts: the umbra, a cone into which no direct sunlight penetrates; and the penumbra, which is reached by light from only a part of the Sun’s disk. See also eclipse; lunar eclipse.
To an observer within the umbra, the Sun’s disk appears completely covered by the disk of the Moon; such an eclipse is called total. To an observer within the penumbra, the Moon’s disk appears projected against the Sun’s disk so as to overlap it partly; the eclipse is then called partial for that observer. The umbral cone is narrow at the distance of Earth, and a total eclipse is observable only within the narrow strip of land or sea over which the umbra passes. The maximum duration for a total solar eclipse is only 7 ½ minutes. A partial eclipse may be seen from places within the large area covered by the penumbra. Sometimes Earth intercepts the penumbra of the Moon but is missed by its umbra; only a partial eclipse of the Sun is then observed anywhere on Earth.
By a remarkable coincidence, the sizes and distances of the Sun and Moon are such that they appear as very nearly the same angular size (about 0.5°) at Earth, but their apparent sizes depend on their distances from Earth. Earth revolves around the Sun in an elliptical orbit, so that the distance of the Sun changes slightly during a year, with a correspondingly small change in the apparent size, the angular diameter, of the solar disk. In a similar way, the apparent size of the Moon’s disk changes somewhat during the month because the Moon’s orbit is also elliptical. When the Sun is nearest to Earth and the Moon is at its greatest distance, the apparent disk of the Moon is smaller than that of the Sun. If an eclipse of the Sun occurs at this time, the Moon’s disk passing over the Sun’s disk cannot cover it completely but will leave the rim of the Sun visible all around it. Such an eclipse is said to be annular. Total and annular eclipses are called central.
In a partial eclipse, the centre of the Moon’s disk does not pass across the centre of the Sun’s. After the first contact, the visible crescent of the Sun decreases in width until the centres of the two disks reach their closest approach. This is the moment of maximum phase, and the extent is measured by the ratio between the smallest width of the crescent and the diameter of the Sun. After maximum phase, the crescent of the Sun widens again until the Moon passes out of the Sun’s disk at the last contact. (For more information about solar eclipses, see eclipse.)
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
solar eclipse,  the Moon coming between Earth and the Sun so that the Moon’s shadow sweeps over Earth’s surface. This shadow consists of two parts: the umbra, a cone into which no direct sunlight penetrates; and the penumbra, which is reached by light from only a part of the Sun’s disk. See also eclipse; lunar eclipse.
To an observer within the umbra, the Sun’s disk appears completely covered by the disk of the Moon; such an eclipse is called total. To an observer within the penumbra, the Moon’s disk appears projected against the Sun’s disk so as to overlap it partly; the eclipse is then called partial for that observer. The umbral cone is narrow at the distance of Earth, and a total eclipse is observable only within the narrow strip of land or sea over which the umbra passes. The maximum duration for a total solar eclipse is only 7 ½ minutes. A partial eclipse may be seen from places within the large area covered by the penumbra. Sometimes Earth intercepts the penumbra of the Moon but is missed by its umbra; only a partial eclipse of the Sun is then observed anywhere on Earth.
By a remarkable coincidence, the sizes and distances of the Sun and Moon are such that they appear as very nearly the same angular size (about 0.5°) at Earth, but their apparent sizes depend on their distances from Earth. Earth revolves around the Sun in an elliptical orbit, so that the distance of the Sun changes slightly during a year, with a correspondingly small change in the apparent size, the angular diameter, of the solar disk. In a similar way, the apparent size of the Moon’s disk changes somewhat during the month because the Moon’s orbit is also elliptical. When the Sun is nearest to Earth and the Moon is at its greatest distance, the apparent disk of the Moon is smaller than that of the Sun. If an eclipse of the Sun occurs at this time, the Moon’s disk passing over the Sun’s disk cannot cover it completely but will leave the rim of the Sun visible all around it. Such an eclipse is said to be annular. Total and annular eclipses are called central.
In a partial eclipse, the centre of the Moon’s disk does not pass across the centre of the Sun’s. After the first contact, the visible crescent of the Sun decreases in width until the centres of the two disks reach their closest approach. This is the moment of maximum phase, and the extent is measured by the ratio between the smallest width of the crescent and the diameter of the Sun. After maximum phase, the crescent of the Sun widens again until the Moon passes out of the Sun’s disk at the last contact. (For more information about solar eclipses, see eclipse.)

----------------------------------------
11 min read
On April 8, 2024, North America will witness its last total solar eclipse for more than twenty years. Other parts of the world will experience the rare celestial event in the coming decade. A total solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes directly between the Sun and the Earth, blocking its disk from view but making its corona visible in a dazzling display. Although spectacular when seen from the ground, observed from space, solar eclipses appear as large shadows moving across the face of the Earth. The unique geometry of the Earth-Sun-Moon system allows total solar eclipses to occur. Eclipses also occur outside the Earth-Moon system, although the geometries of those worlds rarely if ever produce the stunning display visible on Earth. Spacecraft exploring other worlds have documented these extraterrestrial eclipses.
 Left: Schematic geometry of a solar eclipse; sizes and distances not to scale. Right: Path of the April 8, 2024, total solar eclipse. Image credit: courtesy Sky & Telescope.
A solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and the Earth, with the Moon casting its  shadow on its home planet. Although the Sun is much larger than the Moon, it is also much farther away. As seen from Earth, the Sun and Moon have roughly the same angular diameter and appear roughly the same size in the sky. A total eclipse occurs when the Moon blocks out the Sun’s disk entirely. Because the Moon does not orbit in a perfect circle around the Earth, it appears smaller at its farthest point thus creating annular eclipses. Moons around other planets can also create eclipses although their different sizes relative to the Sun do not create our familiar eclipses. Planets with multiple moons can have more than one eclipse occur at the same time.
  Left: Gemini XII astronauts photograph the total solar eclipse from Earth orbit in November 1966. Middle: Surveyor 3 observes a solar eclipse from the Moon in April 1967. Right: In November 1969, Apollo 12 astronauts returning from Moon experienced a solar eclipse as the Earth blocked the Sun shortly before splashdown.
Gemini XII astronauts James A. Lovell and Edwin E. “Buzz” Aldrin for the first time photographed a solar eclipse from Earth orbit on Nov. 12, 1966. Sixteen hours into their flight, the nearly total eclipse came into view as they flew over the Galapagos Islands and Aldrin took several photographs and a short film clip. Calculations showed that Gemini XII passed within 3.4 miles of the center of the eclipse’s path that traversed South America. The Surveyor 3 spacecraft observed the first solar eclipse from the Moon on April 24, 1967. Unlike solar eclipses observed on Earth, this time the Earth itself blocked the Sun – observers on Earth saw the event as a lunar eclipse as the Moon passed through the Earth’s shadow.  In November 1969, as Apollo 12 astronauts Charles “Pete” Conrad, Richard F. Gordon, and Alan L. Bean neared Earth on their return from the second lunar landing – during which they visited Surveyor 3 –  orbital mechanics had a show in store for them. Their trajectory passed through Earth’s shadow, treating them to a total solar eclipse. From their perspective, the Earth appeared about 15 times larger than the Sun. Gordon radioed Mission Control, “We’re getting a spectacular view at eclipse,” and Bean proclaimed it a “fantastic sight.” Conrad reported on the rapidly changing scenery, with the Sun illuminating the Earth’s atmosphere in a 360-degree ring with ever-changing colors while the planet remained pitch black. In the darkness, they could see flashes of lightning in thunderstorms appearing as fireflies. As their eyes adapted to the dark portion of the Earth, they saw landmasses such as India and even city lights. In the center of the Earth’s dark disc they reported seeing a large bright circle that turned out to be the glint of the full Moon reflecting off the Indian Ocean.
  Left: The Moon’s shadow photographed from Mir during the August 1999 eclipse. Image credit: courtesy French space agency CNES. Middle: NASA astronaut Donald R. Pettit observed the first solar eclipse from the International Space Station during Expedition 6 in December 2002. Right: Pettit’s second eclipse during Expedition 31 in May 2012.
The credit belongs to French astronaut Jean-Pierre Haigneré for taking the first photograph from Earth orbit of the Moon’s shadow during a solar eclipse. He photographed the Aug. 11, 1999, total eclipse pass over England while onboard the Russian space station Mir as an Expedition 27 flight engineer. NASA astronaut Donald R. Pettit claims the title as the first person to photograph an eclipse from the International Space Station when he observed the Dec. 2, 2002, total eclipse during Expedition 6. As an additional claim, on May 20, 2012, Pettit observed his second eclipse from the space station during Expedition 31, this one an annular eclipse over the Western Pacific Ocean.
  Left: Expedition 12 image of the March 2006 total eclipse over the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Middle: Expedition 52 image of the August 2017 total eclipse over North America. Right: Expedition 63 image of the June 2020 annular eclipse.
  Left and middle: Two views of the eclipse over Antarctica in December 2021, from the Expedition 66 crew aboard the space station, left, and from the Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) satellite. Right: DSCOVR image of the October 2023 annular solar eclipse over North America.
Space station crews have observed and documented a number of solar eclipses in addition to Pettit’s two sightings, their ability to see the Moon’s shadow as it traverses the Earth’s surface determined by their orbital trajectory. Expedition 12 observed the total eclipse on March 29, 2006, Expedition 43 documented the total eclipse on March 25, 2015, Expedition 52 observed the most recent total eclipse visible from North America on Aug. 21, 2017, Expedition 61 observed the annular eclipse on Dec. 26, 2019, Expedition 63 saw the annular eclipse on June 21, 2020, Expedition 66 imaged the total eclipse over Antarctica on Dec. 4, 2021, and Expedition 70 viewed the annular eclipse visible in North America on Oct. 14, 2023. Positioned nearly one million miles away at the L1 Earth-Sun Lagrange point, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) satellite keeps a watchful eye on Earth’s climate. NASA’s Earth Polychromatic Imaging Camera (EPIC), a camera and telescope aboard DSCOVR, has taken stunning images of the Moon’s shadow during eclipses as well as the Moon transiting across the face of the Earth.
Mars
Beyond the Earth-Moon system, eclipses do not occur on Mercury and Venus since they lack natural satellites to block out the Sun. Mars has two small satellites, Phobos and Deimos, both too small to fully eclipse the Sun, even though it appears only half as big as on Earth. Several rovers have captured Phobos and Deimos as they form annular eclipses. Some astronomers contend that due to the small sizes of the Martian satellites, especially Deimos, compared to the Sun, these are technically transits, not eclipses, but no formal definition exists. The Mars Exploration Rover Opportunity imaged the first eclipses from the surface of Mars shortly after its arrival on the planet, first of Deimos on March 4, 2004, followed by Phobos three days later. More recently, the Mars 2020 Perseverance rover imaged the annular eclipse of Phobos on April 20, 2022, and the eclipse (or transit) of Deimos on Jan. 22, 2024.
  Left: Mars Exploration Rover Opportunity images of Deimos, left, and Phobos crossing in front of the Sun. Middle: Perseverance image of a Phobos annular eclipse in April 2022. Right: Perseverance image of a Deimos eclipse (or transit) in January 2024.
Jupiter
  Left: Hubble Space Telescope infrared image of a triple eclipse on Jupiter on March 28, 2004, with moons Ganymede, Io, and Callisto casting shadows on the planet. Middle: Hubble Space Telescope image of the Jan. 24, 2015, multiple eclipse on Jupiter, with five of its moons – Callisto, Io, Europa, Amalthea, and Thebe – casting shadows on the planet. Right: Europa eclipses Io in December 2014, as observed through an Earth-based telescope. Image credit: courtesy Jen Miller and Joy Chavez, Gemini Observatory.
Since the outer gas giant planets do not have solid surfaces, no spacecraft has imaged an actual eclipse by one of the multitude of moons orbiting these worlds. What we can observe, through ground-based and orbiting telescopes and spacecraft are the shadows cast by the moons on their home planets. Eclipses on Jupiter are not exceptionally rare given the planet’s large size compared to its many moons and greater distance from the Sun. Only five of Jupiter’s moons, Amalthea, Io, Europe, Ganymede, and Callisto are either large enough or close enough to the planet to completely occult the Sun. And given the low tilts of the moons’ orbits, they cast a shadow on every revolution. Double, triple and multiple simultaneous eclipses are not uncommon. The Hubble Space Telescope has observed numerous such events. Given the number of Jupiter’s moons, especially the four large Galilean moons, and that their orbits all lie very close to Jupiter’s equatorial plane, they occasionally eclipse each other, with the outer moons passing between the Sun and the inner moons. When Earth passes through Jupiter’s equatorial plane, fortunate observers can capture these rare events using ground-based telescopes, sometimes accidentally as they observe the Galilean moons for other reasons.
 Left: Juno image of Io’s shadow on Jupiter in September 2019. Right: Juno image of Jupiter’s moon Ganymede casting its shadow on the planet in February 2022.
The Juno spacecraft, in orbit around Jupiter since 2016, has returned stunning images of Jupiter’s cloud patterns. On Sept. 11, 2019, it captured a spectacular image of Io’s shadow on Jupiter’s colorful cloud tops. On Feb. 25, 2022, Juno imaged the largest moon Ganymede’s shadow.
Saturn and beyond
  Left: As it orbited Saturn, in November 2009 Cassini imaged eclipses of moons Titan, center, and Enceladus, lower right of Titan, and the planet’s rings. Middle: Titan casts its shadow, elongated by the planet’s curvature, on Saturn in this November 2009 image from the Cassini orbiter. Right: Sequential Hubble Space Telescope February 2009 images of a quadruple eclipse, as Saturn’s moons Enceladus, Dione, Titan, and Mimas cast their shadows on the planet.
Like Jupiter, dozens of moons orbit around the ringed planet Saturn, providing ample opportunities for telescopes and spacecraft to observe them passing in front of and casting their shadows onto the planet. The Cassini spacecraft, in orbit around Saturn between 2004 and 2017, captured thousands of images of the planet, its rings, and its moons. On many occasions, Cassini passed behind the planet and its moons, creating artificial eclipses, while at other times the spacecraft imaged the moons’ shadows on the planet’s cloud tops. The Hubble Space Telescope captured a series of images of a rare quadruple eclipse on Feb. 24, 2009, as Saturn’s moons Enceladus, Dione, Titan, and Mimas transited across the planet, casting their shadows on the cloud tops.
The Cassini spacecraft created this artificial eclipse of Saturn in November 2013 as it traveled beyond Saturn during one of its orbits, with many objects, including Earth, made visible.
On July 19, 2013, Cassini took a series of images from a distance of about 750,000 miles as Saturn eclipsed the Sun. In the event dubbed The Day the Earth Smiled, people on Earth received notification in advance that Cassini would be taking their picture from 900 million miles away, and were encouraged to smile at its camera. In addition to the Earth and Moon, Cassini captured Venus, Mars, and seven of Saturn’s satellites in the photograph.
  Left: Composite image showing the relative apparent sizes of the Sun and a selection of planetary moons. Image credit: courtesy sdoisgo.blogspot.com. Middle: July 2006 Hubble Space Telescope image of Uranus and its moon Ariel casting a shadow on the planet. Right: The New Horizons spacecraft created an artificial eclipse as it flew behind Pluto during its July 2015 flyby, the Sun’s rays highlighting its tenuous atmosphere.
The Earth occupies a unique position with the nearly equal apparent diameters of the Moon and the Sun, providing opportunities for annular and total solar eclipses. As viewed from planets farther in the solar system, the Sun’s apparent diameter diminishes, with the apparent sizes of the moons orbiting those planets either larger or smaller than the Sun. Eclipses as we know them do not exist elsewhere in the solar system. Spacecraft exploring those remote worlds easily create artificial eclipses by passing through the planets’ shadows, often revealing important information, such as New Horizons imaging the tenuous atmosphere surrounding Pluto.
Paths of solar eclipses between 2021 and 2030. Image credit: courtesy Greatamericaneclipse.com.
The next total solar eclipse visible in North America will not occur until 2044, but over the next few years, several eclipses visible in other parts of the world will no doubt be targets of opportunity for astronauts’ cameras aboard the space station. And spacecraft exploring planets in the solar system will continue to document eclipses in those faraway places.
NASA explores the unknown in air and space, innovates for the benefit of humanity, and inspires the world through discovery.

----------------------------------------
Solar eclipses thrill skywatchers every year. You just have to be in the right place at the right time.

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.

A solar eclipse occurs when the moon is positioned between Earth and the sun and casts a shadow over Earth. 
Solar eclipses only occur during a new moon phase, usually about twice a year, when the moon aligns itself in such a way that it eclipses the sun, according to NASA. 
If you want to know when the next solar eclipse will occur and where you can see it, check out our solar eclipses 2024 guide and our solar eclipse live updates page. Our total eclipse 2024 guide tells you everything you need to know, from how and where to watch it to why it's so special.
Related: How to observe the sun safely (and what to look for) 
There are four different types of solar eclipses depending on how the sun, moon and Earth are aligned at the time of the event: 
A solar eclipse is caused by the moon passing between the sun and Earth, casting a shadow over Earth. 
When the moon crosses the ecliptic — Earth's orbital plane — it is known as a lunar node. The distance at which the new moon approaches a node will determine the type of solar eclipse. The type of solar eclipse is also affected by the moon's distance from Earth and the distance between Earth and the sun. 
A total solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the sun and Earth, completely obscuring the face of the sun. These solar eclipses are possible because the diameter of the sun is about 400 times that of the moon, but also approximately 400 times farther away, says the Natural History Museum.
An annular solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the sun and Earth when it is near its farthest point from Earth. At this distance, the moon appears smaller than the sun and doesn't cover the entire face of the sun. Instead, a ring of light is created around the moon. 
A partial solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the sun and Earth when the trio is not perfectly aligned. As a result, only the penumbra (the partial shadow) passes over you, and the sun will be partially obscured. 
A rare hybrid solar eclipse occurs when the moon's distance from Earth is near its limits for the inner shadow — the umbra — to reach Earth and because the planet is curved. Hybrid solar eclipses are also called annular-total (A-T) eclipses. In most cases, a hybrid eclipse starts as an annular eclipse because the tip of the umbra falls just short of making contact with Earth; then it becomes total because the roundness of the planet reaches up and intercepts the shadow's tip near the middle of the path, then finally it returns to annular toward the end of the path.

Approximately twice a year we experience an eclipse season. This is when the new moon aligns itself in such a way that it eclipses the sun. Solar eclipses do not occur every time there is a new moon phase because the moon's orbit is tilted about 5 degrees relative to Earth's orbit around the sun. For this reason, the moon's shadow usually passes either above or below Earth.

The type of solar eclipse will affect what happens and what observers will be able to see. According to the educational website SpaceEdge Academy, 28% of solar eclipses are total, 35% are partial, 32% are annular and only 5% are hybrid.
During a total solar eclipse the sky will darken and observers, with the correct safety equipment, may be able to see the sun's outer atmosphere, known as the corona. This makes for an exciting skywatching target for solar observers as the corona is usually obscured by the bright face of the sun. 
During an annular solar eclipse, the moon doesn't fully obscure the face of the sun, as is the case in a total eclipse. Instead, it dramatically appears as a dark disk obscuring a larger bright disk, giving the appearance of a ring of light around the moon. These eclipses are aptly known as "ring of fire" eclipses.
Partial solar eclipses appear as if the moon is taking a "bite" out of the sun. As the trio of the sun, Earth and moon is not perfectly lined up, only part of the sun will appear to be obscured by the moon. When a total or annular solar eclipse occurs, observers outside the area covered by the moon's umbra (the inner shadow) will see a partial eclipse instead. 
During a hybrid solar eclipse observers will be able to see either an annular or total solar eclipse depending on where they are located. 
We asked Jamie Carter, Editor of WhenIsTheNextEclipse.com and author of The Complete Guide To The Great North American Eclipse of April 8, 2024some frequently asked questions about solar eclipses. 
Jamie Carter is the editor of WhenIsTheNextEclipse.com and author of The Complete Guide To The Great North American Eclipse of April 8, 2024.
During a solar eclipse, a New Moon obscures some or all of the sun. A partial solar eclipse is a mildly interesting event that must be observed using eye protection and solar filters. A total solar eclipse is a far grander and more nuanced spectacle. As the last slither of sunlight is still visible the temperature crashes, twilight takes hold and once it's 100% eclipsed the sun's white corona is revealed to the naked eye. It's a powerful, even life-changing experience. 
During a solar eclipse, a New Moon gets in between Earth and the sun and the sun's light is partially or totally blocked. During a lunar eclipse, the Earth is between the sun and a full moon, so the moon is in Earth's shadow. The only light that reaches the lunar surface is first filtered through Earth's atmosphere — it's as if a thousand sunsets are projected onto its surface simultaneously, turning it an orangey-copper color.  
When the moon crosses the sun a cone-shaped shadow trails behind the moon. When the tip of that cone just misses Earth a partial solar eclipse is visible. When the tip touches Earth's surface it creates a narrow dark shadow from which it's possible to see a total solar eclipse. On either side of that 'path of totality' a partial solar eclipse is visible.  
The next solar eclipse will be a total solar eclipse on April 8, 2024, and will be visible from Mexico, 14 U.S. states and southeastern Canada.
For more information on how and where to see the total solar eclipse, check out our total solar eclipse 2024 guide. 
Solar eclipses are dangerous if you do not observe the sun safely. 
Never look at the sun without proper eye protection. It is never safe to look directly at the sun's rays even if the sun is partly obscured because they contain harmful ultraviolet (UV) and infrared (IR) rays that can damage your eye's retina and even cause blindness.
Never use regular sunglasses to observe the sun. The only safe way to look directly at the sun is through specifically designed solar filters, using solar eclipse glasses for direct viewing and solar filters for telescopes and binoculars. 
A safe way to view a solar eclipse is to construct a "pinhole camera." A pinhole or small opening is used to form an image of the sun on a screen placed about 3 feet (or about 1 meter) behind the opening. Binoculars or a good telescope mounted on a tripod can also be used to project a magnified image of the sun onto a white card. The farther away from the card, the larger you can focus the image. Look for sunspots. Notice that the sun appears somewhat darker around its limb or edge. This method of solar viewing is safe so long as you remember not to look through the binoculars or telescope when they are pointed toward the sun; put another way, never look directly at the sun when any part of its blindingly bright surface is visible.
Related: How to build your own solar eclipse viewer (video)
A variation on the pinhole theme is the "pinhole mirror." Cover a pocket mirror with a piece of paper that has a ¼-inch (7 mm) hole punched in it. Open a sun-facing window and place the covered mirror on the sunlit sill so it reflects a disk of light onto the far wall inside. The disk of light is an image of the sun's face. The farther away from the wall the better; the image will be only 1 inch across for every 9 feet (or 3 centimeters for every 3 meters) from the mirror. Modeling clay works well to hold the mirror in place. Experiment with different-sized holes in the paper. Again, a large hole makes the image bright, but fuzzy, and a small one makes it dim but sharp. Darken the room as much as possible. Be sure to try this out beforehand to make sure the mirror's optical quality is good enough to project a clean, round image. Of course, don't let anyone look at the sun in the mirror.

If you're around leafy trees, look at the shadow cast by them during the partial phases. What do you see? Is it worth a photograph? You will see scores of partially eclipsed suns projected through pinhole gaps between the leaves. This is caused by diffraction, a property of light. According to Vince Huegele, an optical physicist at the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, the light rays do not shoot straight by the rim of the gaps, or a pinhole, but bend around the edge. This wave effect creates a pattern of rings that resembles a bull's eye. If you want to get all set up for it, we have guides to the best cameras for astrophotography, and the best lenses for astro, so you can be well prepared when the time comes. Our how to photograph an eclipse guide will also help you plan for your next solar-observing adventure.v
Want to look further ahead? You can find a concise summary of solar eclipses through to 2030 on NASA's eclipse website. Read more about solar and lunar eclipses on Eclipse Wise — a website dedicated to predictions of eclipses. Learn about eclipses on other planets with this short article from Cornell University's astronomy department.  
NASA. (December 21, 2022). Types of solar eclipse. NASA. Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/eclipses/about-eclipses/types/
NASA. Moon in motion. NASA. Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://moon.nasa.gov/moon-in-motion/overview
Solar eclipse guide: What they are and how to watch safely. Natural History Museum. Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://www.nhm.ac.uk/discover/solar-eclipse-guide.html
Solar Eclipses (high school). Project: Solar Eclipses (High School). Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://spacedge.academy/course/view.php?id=68
NASA. (2021, February 3, 2021). Eye safety during a total solar eclipse. NASA. Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://www.nasa.gov/content/eye-safety-during-a-total-solar-eclipse
American Astronomical Society (December 18, 2022). Reputable vendors of solar filters & viewers. Solar Eclipse Across America. Retrieved February 7, 2023, from https://eclipse.aas.org/resources/solar-filters
Editor's Note: If you snap an amazing solar eclipse photo and would like to share it with Space.com's readers, send your photo(s), comments, and your name and location to spacephotos@space.com.
Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom and on Facebook.
Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com.
Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!
Daisy Dobrijevic joined Space.com in February 2022 having previously worked for our sister publication All About Space magazine as a staff writer. Before joining us, Daisy completed an editorial internship with the BBC Sky at Night Magazine and worked at the National Space Centre in Leicester, U.K., where she enjoyed communicating space science to the public. In 2021, Daisy completed a PhD in plant physiology and also holds a Master's in Environmental Science, she is currently based in Nottingham, U.K. Daisy is passionate about all things space, with a penchant for solar activity and space weather. She has a strong interest in astrotourism and loves nothing more than a good northern lights chase! 
Just how dark is the universe? NASA's New Horizons probe gives us best estimate yet
UAE on track to launch bold 7-asteroid mission in 2028
Partial lunar eclipse of the Harvest Moon: Everything you need to know
Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 

----------------------------------------
